So okay, our Shiny app is only going to be
useful if it can take in input values, do
some R calculations and then spit out the
result of those calculations or results.
And so the first thing we need to be able
to do is actually take in some input
values.
And so this next code demonstration,
all we're going to do is create a slider
which has to occur in
the user interface and
then the values for those sliders that
the user selects is going to be passed
into the server function which is then
just going to send it back as is to
the user interface function
to redisplay it, okay?
So, this is just another
building exercise.
We're not going to do anything with
the input other than spit it back,
right back out at the user
interface to display it as is.
So, let's try.
Okay, now let's see if we can get our
Shiny app to actually take in
values from the user, via a slider.
Put them to the server, and
then the server will return the values.
Okay, so
I have my ui.R shinyUI function here.
And in my sidebar layout, on the sidebar
panel I'm going to have a slider.
So I'm going to give a user prompt
that says move the slider, and
then slider input.
This function right here is going to
create the slider and display it, and
then I'm going to name,
I have it named slider2, okay.
So I've named the slider slider2,
and then the command says Slide Me!
Okay, it's going to go from 0 to 100 and
it's going to have
the starting value at 0.
Okay, now let's talk about
the main panel in a second.
Okay, so I take that slider value, I input
it, it's given a value called slider 2,
the input from the slider
displayed to the user.
Okay, now my shiny server is
a function that takes as its argument
a function that takes input and
output, okay?
And then you have to
have these curly braces,
because you need to have,
it's defining a function.
So a function has to have the curly
braces, and then down here, you have to
remember to close with the curly braces
and the shiny server parenthesis, okay?
And then, what it's going to do is
it's going to take the input, okay,
input is what's input from the ui.R,
shiny UI function.
And it says take an input, and
let's get rid of that real quick just so
it's consistent with what's in our
mark down code, from the slides.
And it's going to say take in slider 2.
And then what I want to
do is just render it.
In other words, display the text and
I'm going to name that output, text1.
Okay, so then when we go back to
UI.r in the mainPanel, it says,
here's the slider value,
and textOutput is text1.
So that same text that we labeled from
the output from the server function,
it's going to get displayed
in the name panels.
Let's run it and just see how it looks.
Okay, move the slider part.
Here's the slider.
As I move it,
the slider value is displayed over here.
So, what's happening?
Right, is the slider is
receiving a value from the user,
that value is given the label slider2,
okay?
In the server.R function it's
grabbing that from the slot
input $slider2, okay?
And then it's spitting it back out
as Output $text1 and
then the ui.R is displaying it.
Now there's nothing in particular,
I want to emphasize, there's nothing in
particular about having the slider
in the side bar panel and the text
in the main panel and that there's
nothing particular about this order.
It's not sort of running the slider and
then displaying it
because this R code happens to occur later
on in the text than this R code, right?
We could have had the slider output
in the main panel and the slider.
I'm sorry, the slider in the main panel,
in the output, in the sidebar.
So that's an important thing to think
about with Shiny and reactive expressions.
It's not kind of, you don't want to
think about it running linearly,
like a regular R program.
Of course, at some level it is because,
it is in our program but,
the way which the server is going
it's sort of running reactively and
kind of constantly going back and forth.
Okay, so you just want to kind of change
your mindset about that a little bit
then how it is in normal R programming.
Okay, and
now notice another thing is if I were to
label this text output$text and
re-run it, okay.
It doesn't display anything because the
label text doesn't mean anything to ui.R.
It's thinking it's text1 when
it says textOutput, okay.
So let's reload it and
then now it'll work.
See, it's displaying it again.
Same thing with the slider.
If I were to call this slider instead
of slider2 or call it slider1, okay.
It doesn't display anything because
the render text from the UI data or
the server function is looking for
slider2 and
the UI has never put out anything called
slider2, anything labeled slider2.
Okay, so if I were to change this to
slider1, reload it, it now works.
So remember that your
labels have to match up.
The last thing I'll do is just give
you a sense of how you can start to
use these things for manipulation.
Let's just add 10 to
the input of the slider and
then show how we can now display.
Okay, it's not doing much, right,
29 adds 10 and gives you 39.
But you can see actually now what we've
done is we've taken a value from the user,
used R to manipulate that input value.
In this case a very simple manipulation,
added 10 and then sent that back to
the user interface to be displayed.
Okay and all these things
are happening reactively, okay?
So try this out, create a slider,
or a check down box, or
a button, or something like that, that
gets an input and displays it back out.
So then we'll move on to the next step of
actually trying to create a prediction
algorithm, or we'll start to create where
we actually manipulate these numbers
in the server.R function.